SENIOR AUTOMATION ENGINEER TECHNICAL ASSESSMENT

Part 1 Bug report :
Question 1) 1. Based on the business requirement below please provide 3 test case examples that you will use
during yourtesting.
Userstory:
As a hotel manager, I need to ensure thatroom availability updates are accurately reflected in the
booking system to avoid overbooking.
Business Requirement
When a room is booked, the system should automatically update the room's availability status to
"Occupied". If a booking is cancelled, the status should revert to "Available".

Answer Question 1 :
1) Verify that Booking a Room sets status to occupied when or once Room 
has been booked and Checked in for the specific Dates
Expected : Room status to be set to Occupied
Pre-condition : A Room has been booked anc check in 


2) Verify that when a Client cancels a booking that the satus is set to cancelled the status should revert to "Available".
Expected : Room status set to Canceled once cancellation has been made and the status should revert to "Available".
Pre-condition : A Room hass been booked and Client Cancels booking 

3) Verify that when a clients cancels a day earlier for a stay on days plus one that room will be cancelled and the status should revert to "Available". for the spefic day of availability 
Expected :Room status set to Canceled once cancellation has been made and the status should revert to "Available".
Pre-condition : A Room that was booked of more than two days  and the client leaves earlier  - this is to make sure that booking is not entirely Canceled


2) Bug Report :
Format of Bug report 
Title of Bug:
Servirity :
Priority :
Environment where Bug was found:
Detailed Description using : Before , During and After titles
Steps to reproduction : in numbered Steps
Screen shots and Video : Attachments



Part 2 - General Knowledge
1. Which of the following is not a type of non-functional testing?
Answers:

c. Unit Testing


2. Whatis the main purpose of regression testing?
Answers:
b. To ensure existing functionality is not broken by new changes

3. Which ofthe following is a type of white-box testing?

c. Unit Testing


4. Whatis the primary goal of acceptance testing?
b. To ensure the system meets business requirements




Part Three SQL 

Context:
You have three tables: employees, departments, and projects. The employees table has columns
employee_id (integer), employee_name (varchar), and department_id (integer). The departments table has
columns department_id (integer) and department_name (varchar). The projects table has columns
project_id (integer), project_name (varchar), and department_id (integer).
Question:
Write a SQL query to retrieve the names of employees along with the names of their departments and the
names of the projects they are working on. Additionally, include a count of how many employees are
working on each project.

Answer: 
We are retrieving the employee name , departmengt name and Projectname  and Counting the number of employee found in each Project by linking 
department ID from department and employee tables  and futher linking department ID from projects and department table then we order by the name of proje
SELECT 
e.employee_name,
d.department_name,
p.project_name
COUNT(e.employee_id) (PARTITION BY p.project_id ) AS CountofEmpleyes
FROM employees AS e
JOIN departments AS d
ON e.department_id = d.department_id
JOIN projects AS p
ON p.department_id = d.department_id
ORDER BY p.project_name,e.employee_name,



